Happy Wednesday.
Thanks for coming.
I'm not actually
speaking in this session.
I just wanted to give
a quick introduction.
My name is Matt Drance.
I work in DTS,
and I'll be coming back at the end of
the talk to talk a little bit about DTS,
what DTS does,
in case some of you don't know about it.
But I just wanted to introduce you
because I think that this is probably
the most useful Java talk this week,
as far as you guys are concerned,
aside from mine tomorrow.
But when you guys are out of
here in an hour and a half,
you're not going to have to go
read any documentation or download
anything at the end of the day.
You're going to know everything
we know about debugging,
analyzing,
monitoring Java applications on the Mac.
And I think that's something
that a lot of people have
been waiting to hear about.
So without further ado,
I would like to introduce
Tom O'Brien from the
product engineering team.
Thanks, Matt.
You're in the right talk if you're
a Java developer who wants to
deploy your Java on Mac OS X,
but you want to find ways to
avoid cross-platform compatibility
issues that you might run into.
or if you want to know ways
to isolate problems that
you find running Java on 10,
or report problems back to Apple when
you think it's Apple's bug.
So how are we going to approach this?
The talk is going to be
in three parts today.
First, we're going to show you coding
techniques and tips for getting the best
cross-platform behavior out of Java.
Second, we're going to show you testing
and bug isolation techniques that
help you find problems using the
tools available to you on Mac OS X.
And third, we're going to tell you how to
write an effective bug report.
So let's get started
with the first section.
Java is positioned as a cross-platform
development and deployment environment,
and that's true.
And its catchphrase is, "Write once,
run anywhere." Everyone has heard that.
But in the finer levels of detail,
the platform independence isn't an
automatic thing that you get for free.
Your application may run great on one
Java implementation on one platform,
but the same code running on
another platform may run well,
but not in the exact same way
at the finest level of detail.
You may not even be aware of
all the areas that have subtle
differences in Java implementations.
We're going to highlight
some of those today.
How are we going to approach this?
Well, first we want to have you thinking
about it in a slightly different way.
We want to show you the tips
to get the best cross-platform
behavior out of your code.
And the things we show you today are
applicable to all Java implementations.
Even though we're going to
be focusing on Mac OS X,
we're not trying to do it
in a platform-specific way.
We're trying to show you general
techniques that allow you to run
equally well everywhere without
doing something platform-specific,
if you can help it.
will help you be aware of the
areas where different platform
implementations can differ so that
you can adapt to those differences,
or again,
design in a platform-neutral way
so that you don't have to adapt.
So let's move on to an example.
The anti-aliasing settings
for text and graphics vary
from platform implementation
to platform implementation.
And in fact, on Mac OS X,
for applets in the browser,
users can set whether anti-aliasing
is on or off as a preference.
So it varies from run to run.
So you can't guarantee that it's on
or off in any particular situation.
Here, just to remind you,
here's the same code drawing
aliased and with anti-aliasing on.
And you'll notice that line
rendering gets much smoother
in the image on the right,
but it also changes the appearance.
And this may matter to your application.
So what should you do?
If it matters to your application,
you should set and check the
anti-aliasing settings explicitly,
rather than assuming
that they're on or off.
Here's how to deal with it for text only.
And this is using standard
Sun Java 2D APIs to deal
with the rendering hints.
Here's how to do it for
both text and graphics.
And these are just, again,
standard Sun APIs in Java 2D.
Moving on to a more specific example.
For anti-aliasing for text,
in the swing Aqua look
and feel on Mac OS X,
text anti-aliasing is on by default.
And this is in order to fit in better
with the other Mac OS X applications
and match the Mac OS X Aqua guidelines.
It improves readability of
text at small point sizes,
but text metrics are likely
to be different between
aliased and anti-aliased text.
And you see here,
this is the same code running with
anti-aliasing on and then off.
You notice that not only does the
appearance of the text change,
but the length of the text changes.
And so metrics that you gather with the
setting in one position aren't valid
when you switch to the other position.
So how do you deal with this?
Once again,
check and calculate things rather
than hard-coding or coding.
Here, again,
is a standard-sun API for dealing with,
in this case,
calculating the string length of a
particular string rendered in the current
rendering context with a particular font.
And this tells you how long that
string is going to be right now.
It's referred to as width, of course,
because it's graphical,
but we think of it as string length.
So you can find out how many pixels wide
that string is going to be right now when
it's rendered on screen and deal with
that appropriately if it matters to you.
Moving on to other metrics issues.
Control sizes for Java implementation
widgets vary across platforms.
The same controls rendered on
Mac OS X using the same code
running on other platforms
don't have the same appearance,
the same font, the same size.
And this is a standard change that
happens from one platform to another that
is intended to fit in with the platform
look on that particular native platform.
But it makes it fragile to hard-code
widget and font sizes where you've
gathered information based on the
behavior and metrics on one platform.
So how do you deal with this?
Once again,
there are APIs that let you check
rather than hard-coding based on
what you've measured on one platform.
For widget sizes,
the Sun API is the same as the Java API.
To get the preferred size of
a component is relevant here.
For fonts,
you can find out what font you got
back for a particular default font,
and you can find out the
metrics for that font,
again,
in the current situation and the current
rendering context and deal with it.
And we already showed you how to
calculate the string length in the
particular rendering context that
you're in right now with the particular
font you're running with right now.
A more general approach for dealing
with the fact that UI metrics vary
among different implementations of
Java is to use a layout manager.
The layout manager will arrange the
UI for you based on the situation that's
happening on your platform right now.
This has the additional benefit,
if you're even on just one platform,
of handling what happens when you
localize strings to other languages.
They tend to change length.
Localizing out of English into other
languages often tends to make for longer
strings that may not fit into fixed
bounds that you've already picked.
And the layout manager will deal
with that gracefully for you.
In order to discover whether you
have successfully made your code
metrics-independent and can flexibly
deal with different platforms,
you should try your code
out on multiple platforms.
If you're using this example here,
this is something that's running in
the Java implementation on Windows.
And if we use the same code and hard-set
the window size based on what we
measured that it fit into on Windows,
you notice that the button and even more
the label at the bottom are the same.
You can see that the buttons
are clipped because those don't
fit in the look on Mac OS X.
However, if you use a layout
manager and then pack,
it all fits in nicely and looks great.
For more details on the Layout Manager,
you can go to the Sun website
and pick up more information
about this and other topics.
Another UI thing that varies
between Java implementations and is
especially important on Mac OS X is
that the window resize user
interface is in a different location,
again, in order to fit in with what
fits on that particular platform.
On Mac OS X,
the resize box actually takes up
space in the window content region in
the extreme lower right-hand corner,
and that's intended to tile in with the
scroll bars that are normally on the
lower and right-hand edge of the window.
But for Java code that's
coming from other platforms,
that may end up covering up
content that's in the extreme
right-hand corner of the window.
You notice in this sample application,
the extreme right-hand button
is covered up by the resize box.
So how do you deal with this?
Well,
there's several different approaches.
The general approach would be,
if you didn't crowd your UI so
that the extreme lower right-hand
corner of the window is important,
it may open up your UI and
make it look cool anyway.
That may fit in with what you
plan for your application.
If you're using a layout manager,
it's within your control.
And if you're using a layout manager,
So you may have to use an empty
placeholder component to hold
out space underneath the grow
box in order to make this work.
Another alternative on Mac OS X is
to use this Mac OS X system.
[Transcript missing]
This may end up being one of the cases
where you actually have to hard code
something for a particular platform.
There may be situations where there's no
way you can design your code in a really
platform-neutral way and you really have
to do something special for Mac OS X.
I want to emphasize that you want to
do this only if you really have to.
It's kind of a last-resort thing.
You really want to design in a
platform-neutral way if you can,
but if you have to,
this is the way to deal with
it on Mac OS X the right way.
You want to get the
OS name system property,
lowercase it,
and then find out whether it
starts with Mac space OS space X.
Tech Note 2110 has more
details about this approach.
Again, I want to say that if there are
APIs that you get at specific metrics,
you want to deal with those APIs.
If you're interested in specific
behaviors or metrics on that platform,
ask for those specifically
rather than trying to infer
them from being on Mac OS X.
Things may change from one
implementation to another,
or in some cases may even
change from one to another,
as we saw earlier.
So what have we dealt with?
Well, the general way is to design your
code in a platform-neutral way.
And the way you confirm that you designed
in a platform-neutral way is to try
your code out on multiple platforms
to see whether your assumptions work.
This will help you discover
inadvertent platform dependencies.
In addition to the metrics issues
we were talking about earlier,
there's other things that you may be
inadvertently depending on that you
don't know about that you can try.
For example,
if on a particular implementation
there are special characteristics
[Transcript missing]
and Matt Drance, the two of you,
will be presenting the
first session of the Java
[Transcript missing]
In the current situation,
we've been hard-coding them based on a
previous platform or on a previous run.
If all else fails,
we will show you something
platform-specific.
We showed you the right way to build
a Java application on Mac OS X.
We have Barry Langdon-Lassagne,
who's going to show you some tips for
building full-time Java applications.
Thank you, Tom.
Good afternoon.
Welcome.
Thanks for coming.
I'm going to talk about two things
in this portion of the talk.
First,
I'm going to talk about JUnit and how
you can integrate Java into Mac OS X.
and David Dorn, are here to talk about
the problems with Java.
and David That's great.
So you already know what JUnit is.
It's an open source framework
for incorporating unit...
[Transcript missing]
recently made available,
and it's available on
both Tiger and Panther.
[Transcript missing]
One is here you can see
I import the unit framework.
And at the beginning of my
class you can see that I have
Download JANET from janet.org and
install it in your class path.
Be important as well.
Download JANET from janet.org and
install it in your class path.
Be important as well.
I'm not going to go
into detail about this.
This is all standard.
And then back down below, in my target,
test target.
I thought I had-- I can try to
bring it up a little higher.
Sure.
I have a slide that has bigger fonts,
too, for that code.
and you notice the output.
In Xcode currently,
the output from AMP happens over pain.
So this window, and if you notice,
the lower pain has a slider.
And let me just open
that up so you can see.
Here's the compile target .
And then, I'm going to change the
font size on this slide.
At least I don't know
where the settings are.
This is the output from the
test target in my build.xml.
[Transcript missing]
And then a stat crawl
from the point of failure.
So let me move over to my test code,
which is in my test file.
The name of the failing method
was TestForceFalseFailure.
And I used the JUnits
method to assert true.
And for purposes of the demo,
I set that to false so that
we would get a failure.
I'm going to change that to true.
And then I'm going to run it again.
And you'll see a little
bit different behavior.
Again, this time you can see
in the compile target,
it actually does compile
because I changed my test case.
In the test section you can
see all of the tests ran
and all of the tests passed.
And because the tests passed,
it was able to connect to the jar
section and then execute the code.
And here's the application running where
we show alias versus anti-alias text,
which you saw in a previous slide.
So that's JUnit running
inside Xcode on Mac OS X.
So back to slides.
The things you need to do.
One, you need to write tests.
You've got to write tests
in order for them to run.
Number two,
you need to get a copy of JUnit and put
it in your class path on your machine.
On the demo machine,
I put mine in library Java extensions.
There's lots of different ways
to add to your class path.
And then third, you need to modify your
build.xml file to execute JUnit.
And this, on the screen,
you see a very simple--
a minimal way of executing JUnit tests.
And then here,
I've added one more argument
to the JUnit command,
the Halt on Failure argument.
And if Halt on Failure is set to yes,
then when you build
with your ant project,
if there are any test failures,
then it will stop at that point.
You'll get a failure and you know,
your build will be
considered to have failed.
If you set that to no,
it'll run the test,
but it'll go on and build and run.
So again, it's your choice.
The way you design projects,
whether you want to
set that true or false.
I'd recommend true.
Down at the bottom, you can see just the
beginning of my jar target,
and the default template
for AMP-based projects
For the depends clause set to compile,
I've modified it to be dependent upon
test so that it would execute the
test as part of building the project.
So that's JUnit.
Tests are integrated into
your development process.
You write your tests.
It's a really nice way of integrating
testing into your development process.
It works really great with Xcode.
I've been using it for a while now.
Other IDEs, Eclipse,
and Maria also support JUnit.
It's cross-platform.
There's a large, active community.
Most of you raised your hands,
so you already know a lot of this.
And for more information,
go to JUnit.org and read
the documentation there.
So the other part, when things go wrong.
Sometimes it's a problem in your code.
Sometimes it's underneath you.
Sometimes it's out of your control,
and I'm going to cover
both of those areas.
So I'm going to cover several things.
I will show you some Mac OS X tools
for isolating problems.
Many of the tools-- well,
some of the tools are
specific to Mac OS X.
Many of the tools are cross-platform
tools you may already be familiar with.
I will mention when I'm using
a tool that's cross-platform,
just so that it's clear.
And the goal is to give you the
knowledge you need to fix the problem,
or if the problem is outside
the scope of your code,
in order to isolate it and
to report an effective bug.
Let's go to a demo again.
I'm going to do a little
bit of role playing here.
I am a developer fairly new to Mac OS X,
and I'm starting to bring
up my projects on the Mac.
And Tom here, Tom is the expert,
and I'm going to be calling him .
So let me get this stuff out of the way.
Okay, Tom.
I've written a little simple program.
It does some painting.
It has two separate threads,
and both of the threads
paint to the screen,
and it's supposed to animate
in between the two threads.
But it doesn't animate.
It's just sitting there.
So you know Mac OS X.
What should I do here?
Why don't you try Activity Monitor?
TOM O' Okay.
Let's try Activity Monitor.
Oh, Thread Painter.
There's my Thread Painter.
So what am I looking at?
This is showing you the state
of all the processes that are
running for you in Mac OS X.
There's Thread Painter,
and it looks pretty quiet.
It's using no CPU, or essentially no CPU.
So your application is basically stopped.
OK.
So I can tell my application doesn't
seem to be doing a whole lot.
So let's find out more about what's
going on inside Java right now.
If you send a kill-minus-quit
signal to that Java process,
the VM will dump the state of
all the threads that are running.
Tom O' Okay.
So I guess I need terminal.
Is that font big enough?
Can you guys read?
So kill minus quit,
this is standard on Unix platforms.
I send kill a quit signal
with the process ID,
which I can see here is 629.
It should dump a stack
trace out to standard out,
but Tom, I don't see anything.
TOM O' Well, how'd you launch?
How did you launch?
I double-clicked the jar in the finder.
Ah.
It's going to end up
in the system console.
So go look in the system console.
OK,
let's take a look at system console here.
This looks kind of like a stack.
Thread dump here.
OK, look,
I see this is some old debugging
output from my application.
I can see it--
Thread dump here.
OK, look,
I see this is some old debugging
output from my application.
Thread dump here.
OK, look,
I see this is some old debugging
output from my application.
I can see it--
Found one Java-level deadlock.
Sure enough, it looks like I found
a deadlock in my code.
Let's take a look at my code.
Threadpainter.java line 70.
I'm going to open up
Threadpainter and Xcode here.
I'll go to line 70.
And there's my odd thread,
and there's my even thread.
And I have synchronized this even thread
with an outer lock and inner lock,
and--
I have an interlock and an
outerlock on the odd thread.
Looks like you've set
up a classic deadlock.
Did you do this deliberately?
Oh, what do you think?
Usually it's not quite
this straightforward,
but you get the idea, the tool,
how to use the tool to
find this type of problem.
Let's go back to slides.
So the tools that we just used,
you saw kill minus quit,
you saw activity monitor,
and kill minus quit.
Kill minus quit works cross-platform.
If you're running in terminal,
if you're executing
from the command line,
you can also do control backslash
and get the same information.
If you're on a machine,
you can do control break and
also get the same information.
So up on the screen,
the little sample you see,
I used top to get the process ID,
and kill minus quit for that
process ID to dump the stack trace.
And it pointed out one of the
slight points of confusion,
especially for people new to Mac OS X,
where does the output go?
If I was running in terminal,
as you would expect,
the output goes to the
terminal right where you are.
But if you're double-clicking a jar,
or if you have a .app
application in the finder,
the output is going to
go to the system console,
console.app.
And similarly,
if you're running in Safari,
you have an applet in Safari,
the output's going to
go to console as well.
Unless you have turned
on the Java console using
the Java Settings plugin,
the Java Settings application,
in which case the output
goes to the Java console,
which also has some other debugging
tools that you can take a look at.
There's a help screen that shows up
when you first invoke that console,
useful for debugging applets.
Lastly, if you're running-- if you're
executing your code from Xcode,
you'll see the output
right in the run log.
OK.
So let's go to another demo.
Same role.
I'm a developer.
Still getting my sea
legs here on Mac OS X.
I had some of this stuff so
that it's not distracting.
And I have another little
application I call Drawing Loop.
And it does some animation.
This time it does do animation.
See, it's working.
and I can turn on and
off the box numbers.
Each square has a number
associated with the slider,
the J slider down here at the bottom.
But Tom, I have a problem here.
When I drag it all the way to the right,
it just kind of stops responding.
And then if I resize, it gets even worse.
And there's that rainbow cursor.
So I just saw Activity
Monitor with the last one,
and I can remember these things.
So I'm going to look at Activity
Monitor again and see what it tells me.
So here, look at this.
This is very helpful.
Drawing loop is hung.
Activity Monitor, at least,
thinks my application is hung.
And I'm using a lot of CPU.
So now what should I do?
Should I use kill minus quit again?
Get a stack dump?
JOHN MCCUTCHAN: You'd find out what state
the Java threads were in,
but we have an even cooler tool for this.
It's new this week.
It's Shark for Java.
BRYAN LAMBERT: That's right.
JOHN MCCUTCHAN: So go launch Shark.
BRYAN LAMBERT:
I was at the VM performance
talk yesterday afternoon when
Christy demonstrated Shark.
So I do know a little
bit about Shark now,
because I just saw a demo.
So let me try it with my application.
So there is one piece of setup you
have to do in order to use Shark.
And you might have seen
it in some of the output.
In fact, I think in the console,
it'll still say it right here.
Here, picked up Java options.
I have set -x run shark in order to give
shark the data that it needs from the
Java runtime for it to do its magic.
So shark is a profiling tool.
You can use it to isolate bugs.
I'm just going to do a time trace here.
And I'm going to start it.
And it's sampling what's going on in
my application there in the background,
the one with the spinning rainbow cursor.
Now let me stop,
and it will produce this nice report.
So this tells me where I was when
Shark was sampling my application,
where I'm spending time.
And at the very top you see
C:\SurfaceData Finish Lazy Drawing.
That's probably not very readable.
This one, the one at the top,
is the one where the
most time is being spent,
where Shark sampled the most times.
So I'm just going to open it up
and see what I can learn from here.
This is a stack crawl.
The leaf is at the top.
And as I drill down,
you can see I spend a lot of time in AWT,
which was called by Java 2D.
And then I get down to
these blank ones here.
But I recognize these-- drawRacks,
fillScreenWithRacks, paint as my code.
That's my code executing there.
knows about Java.
The other tools that you
may be used to using,
such as Sampler or Sample
on the Command Line,
they don't have this kind of
intimate knowledge of Java.
Now, Paint, Fill Screen with Rx, Draw Rx.
I want to go take a look
at my paint routine.
And Tom, maybe you can help me
because you're an expert.
See if there's anything
here I'm doing that might be
causing that rainbow cursor.
So there's my paint method.
Right here, down at the bottom.
Barry, you want to tell me what
extreme count mode is?
BARRY LANGDON- Oh, yeah,
extreme count mode.
Yeah, I just recently added that.
When I drag it to the right,
it's supposed to fill the
screen with rectangles.
And that's actually right here,
fill screen with rects.
And maybe I set the bar
a little bit too high.
This is a dual processor D5.
It can handle 10,000 runs
of 10,000 rectangles,
can't it?
Eventually.
Yeah, actually, this is not hung.
Even though Activity
Monitor said it was hung,
it would eventually return,
but it would take a while.
And I said it such that
it would take a while.
It's usually not that straightforward.
So back to slides.
Here you saw, again, Activity Monitor.
The CPU level was really high that time,
so you did get some interesting
information from Activity Monitor.
You could have used Top in that same
situation and seen similar data,
and Top is cross-platform,
at least for other Unix machines.
And I showed you Shark, a great tool,
recently enhanced,
to tell you a lot more about Java.
And there's a Shark Talk this
Friday I'd like to tell you about,
and you should go.
Christy is giving the talk,
and that's at 3:30,
and I don't know the room name,
but it's session number 307.
Oh,
Sanjay and Nathan are giving the talk.
And the talk is not specific to Java,
but the techniques that you learn there
should be useful for Java as well.
So did I go back to demo already?
OK, this is my last demo.
Let's hide some stuff here.
Oh, and so here's a little tiny tool,
a little tiny technique.
If you hold down the mouse on the icon,
Force Quit comes up as an option.
And if you don't see Force Quit,
you can hold down the
Option key to force Force Quit.
It's a nice way of getting
rid of your frozen app.
OK, my last app here, Tom,
JNIwrapper.jar.
This is a little piece of Java that
calls a little piece of native code.
So I can bring it up here.
And when I click on this button,
at this point it will call my
native library that I've written,
and it crashes.
So what should I do?
Should I click Submit Report here
and send the bug to Apple?
TOM WALSH: Hold on.
Just hold that thought.
We'll come back to that.
Just put that aside.
Tom O'Brien: All right.
Let me move that out of the way here.
So what should I do
with this application?
Well, you said it was needed
code that you're calling?
TOM O' Yeah.
Well, if you don't have
source available to you,
your best debugging tool that
you have available would be GDB.
So why don't you try attaching
to it in GDB before the crash?
TOM O' That actually brings
up a very important point.
Sometimes you do have source.
If you have source,
Xcode is the way to go.
Single step in Xcode, trace these.
But there are lots of
different situations where
you might not have source.
You might have a third
party native library.
You might be on a customer's computer
trying to do debugging with what's there.
You might be on a test
machine in your labs.
Lots of different times
you won't have source,
and so you want to use other
tools that are available too.
And you said GDB.
I know GDB.
So let me launch the app here.
I'm not going to press the button yet.
I'm going to use top this time.
See what process it is.
It looks like process 654.
Copy that.
And I will do a gdb attach.
I'm not going to teach you GDB.
I'm just going to show
you a tiny bit of GDB.
Being aware that it's there and that
it's useful is the main point here.
GDB is now attached to my process.
I'm going to tell it to continue so
that my application has control again.
And now I'm going to press this button.
And you can see GDB immediately
catches the crash.
So here I can do a thread
apply all backtrace.
Yes, there are shortcuts for this.
And now I have a dump of all of
the native threads that are running
associated with my application.
Many of these are Java threads
like the event thread.
But at least one of
them should be my code.
Let me go back up to the top here.
It looks like it could not
access memory on thread 0xf603.
And that's right here.
So it's pointing to line 29 of my code.
So sometimes you don't have source code.
This time we do.
So we're just going to take a quick peek.
at my little JNI line.
And we will go to line 29 in Xcode.
And here, Tom-- well,
it may be fairly clear to you,
but here I have a pointer
and I'm dereferencing it.
But oh, look, just above here the
pointer got set to zero.
TOM O' How could that have happened?
Yeah, that could be a problem.
And if you've ever debugged C code,
you probably know that it's not
that straightforward usually.
Sometimes it is.
So why did you want me to
set this window aside here?
TOM O' Well,
the Submit Report button has hiding
behind it something very similar
to what you just got in GDB,
which is a native crash report showing
all the native threads that were
running at the point of the crash,
including a little bit more
helpful stuff pointing you to the
exact thread number that crashed.
So it's containing basically
the same information you got.
And you sometimes get this if your
application has a user interface.
That's the basic rule,
that you'll get this crash report window.
You can copy and paste this
information into a bug report,
or you can use it for further
isolation on your machine.
TOM O' So now I can send to Apple?
Sure.
Go ahead.
TOM O' Well, you know,
I just reported to Apple my own bug.
So you probably shouldn't do
that if it's in your own code.
Let me point out,
sometimes you'll get a report.
Somebody says, my application crashed.
And you said, well,
did you grab the stat crawl?
And they say, no.
Those stat crawls are actually
saved on your machine.
And in this case,
it's in my home directory in library log.
folks.
And inside Crash Reporter,
you see a java.crash.log file.
This contains the log that you just
saw on the screen for all of the
crashes that have ever happened
for this user on this system.
And you may have noticed
as I was navigating here,
I went past a folder full of a
bunch of Java native crash logs.
And they have a PID associated with them.
If I look back here at my GDB output,
process 654 was the one that had crashed.
And so that would be
this one here at the top.
And let's just take a quick peek at that.
If you're reporting bugs,
this file can come in handy in
isolating where the problem is.
In this case, you see here,
this is a Java stat crawl from
the point where it crashed.
And up near the top, we were in Java,
and at the very top,
it called a native method.
So that's the point at which it
kind of jumped out and left Java.
And that's the limit of the
information that the Java VM can
give you about the crash.
There's also a little helpful
reminder here at the bottom,
and this has helped reduce
some of the bug reports we get.
It says, the exception above was detected
in native code outside the VM.
And it's usually accurate,
maybe not always,
but what that usually means
is it wasn't Java crashing,
it was something else crashing.
It may have been a native
library that you had written.
It might be an OS bug.
It may still be something
that you'd want to report.
I just wanted to point
out that little detail.
Okay, back to slides.
I guess the font could
be a little bigger.
So what tools did we use there?
GDB Attach, GDB Cross-Platform,
handy tool.
We used the Crash Reporter window
as a bug isolation tool.
And you saw where I had found some of
the crash logs in my library logs folder.
What have we learned here?
This is a summary.
First, in the first crash demo,
in the first hang demo, I was spinning.
The CPU was low.
I found that out by looking
in Activity Monitor.
Could have used top, PS,
similar techniques for finding that out.
I did a kill minus quit
to get the information.
Control backslash also works.
In the second example,
I had high CPU usage,
which I saw from Activity Monitor.
And in this situation, we used Shark.
If you don't have Shark,
you should download it.
You want to get the
latest version of Shark,
both for Tiger and for Panther.
The download is available
on developer.apple.com
tools slash performance.
Do I have it right?
Okay.
And you could use kill-minus-quit
in this situation.
You would get some information
that may help isolate it.
The detail that you get from
Shark is a lot finer grained,
a lot more detailed, a lot more useful.
And then the last example,
the crashes in native code.
We used GDB.
We also looked at
Crash Reporter and the Java logs,
as you just saw.
But there's one more thing
relative to that last one.
What if it crashed and you
didn't have a native library?
What if there was no
native code on your side,
if it was pure Java?
Well, pure Java shouldn't crash, right?
It's not supposed to crash.
So sometimes you find a bug in Java,
or perhaps in the OS, below that.
So what do you do in that situation?
Well, you probably want to
get working right away.
So the first thing you would
want to do is find a workaround,
or maybe see if you can get by without
that specific piece of functionality.
There's a very active
developer community out there.
The Java dev mailing list is the
best way to get in touch with that.
How many people here
are already on Java dev?
Little less than half.
Highly recommend Java Dev.
You should sign up at lists.apple.com.
It's a free mailing list
and very active community.
They can often help you find workarounds.
Apple engineers are on there.
Don't consider writing to Java Dev as
being the same as logging a bug report.
And if you do get a crash,
we do want you to file a bug report.
And we don't want you to
just file any bug report.
Part of the reason we're giving you
all these tools and techniques is so
that you can file a great bug report,
which leads me to the
last part of the talk,
where Tom is going to tell
you how to do such a thing.
Click.
TOM O' Thank you.
So when you find a problem that
you want to report to Apple,
the best way to get that information
to Apple is to log a bug report.
Apple's radar database is
the way we track hardware and
software issues that come up and
The best way we track hardware
and software issues that come up.
As Apple developers,
your way into the radar database
is through the bug reporter web
page that Barry just mentioned.
He also talked about sending email to
Java devs so you can find a workaround
or discuss your problem with other folks.
Apple engineers are often present there,
but their presence isn't
the same as filing a bug.
So you need to use the
official mechanisms to get
your bug report back to Apple.
The crash report window that we just
saw is intended mostly for end users,
though we saw how we could use it to find
out more about isolating the problem.
But just clicking send report to Apple is
intended as an end user technique.
You guys have more powerful techniques,
some of which we've showed you,
in order to isolate the
problem further in better ways.
So what's in a good bug report?
There's three major areas that
characterize a great bug report.
A good problem description,
clear steps to reproduce,
and technical information that gives the
context for the problem that you found.
We're going to go through
each of these in turn.
First,
the description of the bug that you
found is a summary of what happened.
First, what you expected to happen,
and then what actually happened.
And if you have to explain why you
expected what you expected to happen,
you can spell that out too.
But you want to contrast those
two things so that we know
what you were really expecting.
This is a modified excerpt
from a real bug report.
You notice the developer has
summarized the problem by setting
forth what they were doing and
what problem they ran into.
And you also notice that they
referred to a screenshot,
which is an invaluable piece
of information in bugs that
end up being graphical,
because it really does tell
the story in a great way.
The second component of a great bug
report is clear steps to reproduce.
You want specific step-by-step
instructions that a naive user
could use to reproduce the same
situation you ran into with little
or no knowledge of your product
or your particular problem domain.
If those steps don't always end up
having the problem that you ran into,
you should indicate approximately
how often it takes to run through
those steps and hit the problem.
Again, another excerpt from a bug.
You notice the developer has spelled
out numbered steps of what you
should do in pretty clear language,
and has also contrasted that with
what the computer was responding with.
And a common way to do that
is to use an ASCII art arrow,
but there's plenty of other
ways to make that clear.
The third area for context
of the problem that you ran
into is the technical details.
And this breaks down into three further
sub-areas that we'll go through.
First, more detail about the failure.
We saw how to capture crash logs.
And in most cases,
both the Java and the native stack
crawls are important here for
crashes that you run into in Java.
In the cases of bugs that
do or don't involve a crash,
any exceptions or messages that
end up in the console leading up
to that problem are also useful
in isolating the problem further,
and so you should include those.
And we saw that for graphical issues,
the screenshot is an invaluable
piece of information in spelling
out the story of what's going wrong.
The next subcomponent of
technical details is the software
configuration that you're running on.
The Mac OS X version you found it on,
the Java version you were running with,
both of those in detail.
And if it only happens on some
Java versions or some Mac OS X versions,
spelling those out and saying where
it does and doesn't happen is useful
in isolating the problem further.
Additionally, if you have access to
Java implementations on other platforms,
contrasting the behavior of the same
steps or the same test case on those
other platforms is also useful in
tracking down the problem further.
In the special case of swing bugs,
saying whether the problem you see
happens with the Aqua look and feel or
with the metal look and feel or both of
them is useful information because those
are two different implementation paths.
And another excerpt from a bug report
summarizing the software config.
You notice the developers detailed
the Mac OS X and Java versions.
They've regressed with a
previous version of Java to say
whether it did or didn't happen.
And they've even compared
with Java on another platform.
You notice the developers detailed
the Mac OS X and Java versions.
They've regressed with a
previous version of Java to say
whether it did or didn't happen.
And they've even compared
with Java on another platform.
You notice the developers detailed
the Mac OS X and Java versions.
They've regressed with a
previous version of Java to say
whether it did or didn't happen.
And they've even compared
with Java on another platform.
You notice that they've compared it
with a platform where it doesn't occur,
and you notice they've also referred
to the Apple System Profiler
information that they captured.
The Apple System Profiler can do
kind of a brain dump of the entire
configuration of your machine down
to really fine levels of detail,
most of which aren't usually
relevant in Java bugs,
but you never know.
So it doesn't hurt to throw it in,
but it's also useful just to have this
brief summary of your configuration
that I described with the CPU type
and monitor configuration and
other basic things like that.
We're into the fourth part of the
three that I originally promised.
The fourth part is great bug
reports have a test case.
A test case is self-contained
steps to reproduce your problem.
If we have a test case,
it means that Apple knows that they're
trying to reproduce the exact same
problem that you originally found,
because they're running the same test
case that you ran to show your bug.
Ideally, your test case shouldn't
require user intervention.
That's not always the case,
but if your test case can
discover whether the bug is
present or not all by itself,
that's really great.
A test case that can be run from the
command line that's been whittled
down to a simple public static void
main test or is in the form of a JUnit
test is a great way to present that.
And if you have a JUnit test that can
determine pass or fail all by itself,
it may end up being put into our
regression harness internally
so that we run it periodically
on upcoming builds of Java,
and your test case will
live on in immortality.
Here's a reference from a real bug.
You notice that the person who
originally filed the triangle
bug referred to a test case.
So let's recap what's
in a great bug report.
First, a clear description that contrasts
the actual and expected behavior.
Second,
simple steps to reproduce that a naive
user could go through to get to the same
situation that you originally ran into.
Finally, technical details,
the crash logs that we showed
you how to gather earlier,
any messages to the terminal or console,
any exceptions are useful to include,
and the configuration
information that we broke down,
hardware and software configuration,
comparisons if you have them
with other versions of Java,
Mac OS X, or even on other platforms.
And the single most important
part could be the test case,
the self-contained steps to reproduce
your problem that guarantees that we're
talking about the same bug that you are.
Getting back to the triangle bug,
the triangles draw just fine
now in case you were worried.
So where have we been today?
We showed you techniques for doing
platform-neutral Java coding when
it's possible using the APIs that are
available to you from Sun's Java that
allow you to have your code work
flexibly with Java implementations
on multiple platforms and work great.
We showed you some bug isolation
techniques for finding and isolating
problems further when you run into
them running Java on Mac OS X.
And we showed you how to file an
effective bug report to get information
back to Apple when you think you found
something that Apple should be aware of.
Now I'd like to bring back Matt Drance,
who has some additional points.
Thank you very much, Tom.
So there have been a couple questions
floating around this week and
in weeks past about DTS and what
DTS does and what DTS stands for.
How many of you have actually logged
an incident with DTS in the past?
Okay, that's a pretty good crowd.
So DTS is Developer Technical Support,
and I'm going to just reiterate
what Barry and Tom said,
is that the Java dev mailing
list is a priceless resource.
There are both Apple and non-Apple
experts on the list that reply
very frequently and very rapidly,
sometimes too much frequently.
I think in most of the sessions
this week we've been telling people,
if you join Java dev, set up a filter,
because there's quite
a bit of volume in it.
But a lot of the information is very,
very useful.
And if just community
conversation doesn't help you out,
you can talk to DTS and send
an email to DTS@apple.com.
And what DTS does is basically
we give people code-level
assistance on a per-incident
basis or a per-problem basis.
And that could be something as simple as,
"Hey, I read about this new
API or this new feature.
I don't know how to implement it.
Can you guys help me understand
how this works?" Or it could be,
"I have this bug,
and I don't know how to work around it,
and it's critical to my application."
And we do anything in between
or including those two things.
Now, the reason I'm emphasizing this is
because DTS does not actually fix bugs
in the JVM or in the OS anywhere else.
Engineering works on the bugs,
and DTS works around them.
And I wanted to emphasize
that because sometimes we get
people writing in and saying,
"Okay, I bought an incident.
Will you fix my bug now,
please?" And that's
not really how we work.
We'd like to think that we fix
your bugs even if you don't pay us.
But some people out there
may be more skeptical.
That's really the only
message I wanted to send.
DTS is out there.
There are people for Java,
there are people for printing,
core graphics, sound, QuickTime,
every technology area.
And I think that's about it.
So, of all the things we've been
referencing this afternoon,
there's obviously the disk image that's
been showing up for every talk this week.
There's the Java reference library
off of the reference library home.
There's a great document on general
Java 1.4 development for Mac OS X,
which talks about cross-platform
issues as well as things you can do
to enhance your Mac look and feel.
And there's the tech note
that was cited earlier,
number 2110, for identifying Java.
You need to do something Mac-specific,
the best way to identify
Java on Mac OS X,
as well as identifying a specific
Java release on Mac OS X that has
version strings and everything.